.\" pump.1
.\"
.\" pump(1) manual page
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016, 2017 AJ Jordan <alex@strugee.net>
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"     http:.\"www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.TH PUMP 1 "15 October 2019" "5.0.3"
.SH NAME
pump.io \- stream server that does most of what people really want from a
social network
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B pump
[ --config
.IR config_path
| -c
.IR config_path
]
[ --\fIconfig_option\fR
.IR config_value
]\fI...\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
I post something and my followers see it. That's the rough idea behind
the pump.

There's an API defined in the
.B API.md
file in the source. It uses activitystrea.ms JSON as the main data and
command format.

You can post almost anything that can be represented with activity
streams -- short or long text, bookmarks, images, video, audio,
events, geo checkins. You can follow friends, create lists of people,
and so on.

The software is useful for at least these scenarios:

* Mobile-first social networking

* Activity stream functionality for an existing app

* Experimenting with social software

It also comes with a web UI.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR --config ", " -c
Path to JSON config file. Default is
.B /etc/pump.io.json
or
.B ~/.pump.io.json
.TP
.BR --help ", " -h
Print help text and exit
.TP
.BR --version ", " -v
Print version information and exit
.PP
You can also pass configuration values as arguments starting with
.B --
- for example,
\fBpump.io.json\fR's
.B port
value can be set by passing
\fB--port\fR.
Camelcasing like
.B urlPort
should be replaced with
.B -
(i.e.
.B urlPort
becomes \fB--url-port\fR). Keys whose value is an object can be
specified using
.B .
(period) to separate nested keys. For example, a
.B pump.io.json
with the following contents:

.nf
.RS
{ "params": { "host": "localhost" } }
.RE
.fi

can be set by passing
\fB--params.host localhost\fR.

.SH EXAMPLES
Run the server:

.nf
.RS
pump
.RE
.fi

Run the server with a custom config location in
`/etc/pump/config.json`:

.nf
.RS
pump -c /etc/pump/config.json
.RE
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.BR NODE_ENVIRONMENT
The environment pump.io is running in. This should be set to
.B production
in production environments or performance will be significantly
degraded.
.PP
.B pump
also accepts configuration values via environment variables. These are
too numerous to list here, but the basic idea is to start with
.B PUMPIO_
and append the capitalized configuration key you want to set. For
example, the
.B port
key in your
.B pump.io.json
would translate to the environment variable \fBPUMPIO_PORT\fR. To
configure camelcased config values like
.B urlPort
replace the camelcasing with
.B _
(underscore). For example,
.B urlPort
would become
\fBPUMPIO_URL_PORT\fR. Keys whose value is an object can be
specified using
.B __
to separate subkeys. For example, a
.B pump.io.json
with the following contents:

.nf
.RS
{ "params": { "host": "localhost" } }
.RE
.fi

can be represented by exporting
.B PUMPIO_PARAMS__HOST
with a value of \fBlocalhost\fR.

.SH FILES
.B /etc/pump.io.json
,
.B ~/.pump.io.json
- default configuration files. The latter overrides the former.
.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\"
.\".B pump.io.json(5)
.\".B pump-register-app(1)
.\".B pump-register-user(1)
.\".B pump-set-password(1)
.\".B pump-authorize(1)
.\".B pump-post-file(1)
.\".B pump-post-note(1)
.\".B pump-delete(1)
.\".B pump-follow(1)
.\".B pump-stop-following(1)
.\".B pump-show-inbox(1)
.\".B pump-show-outbox(1)
.\".B pump-create-group(1)
.\".B pump-show-group-inbox(1)
.\".B pump-import-collection(1)
.\".B pump-import-email(1)
.SH BUGS
Bugs are tracked in GitHub:
.I https://github.com/pump-io/pump.io/issues
\.
.SH AUTHOR
Written primarily by Evan Prodromou; enhanced and maintained by many
contributors.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2011-2019, E14N https://e14n.com/ and contributors

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you
may not use this file except in compliance with the License.  You may
obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied.  See the License for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under the License.
